I will never understand why philosophers of each of the twenty-one centuries have concerned themselves with the ship of Theseus, a thought experiment that asks whether a ship with all of its components replaced remains the same ship. The answer truly should not matter in regard to an inanimate object, and any variation of this paradox is a semantic technicality. The sinking of the RMS Titanic is only considered a significant moment in history due to the lives it brought down with it, and the only people who had any reason to care about the fundamental composition of a ship after colliding with an iceberg were those on board when it happened.

I say this because nothing other than consciousness could possibly give meaning to our disposable carcasses. If my brain were transferred into another body, I would remain myself, for identity is a right that resides far more in consciousness than in visas and passports. Death is a stripping of this right, killing our bodies but mostly our minds. When I contemplate the implications of someone’s death, I am not thinking about their corpse decaying six feet underground, but about the fact that they will never once think about anything again. 

It is for this reason that I am intrigued by what I see as the postmodern equivalent of the ship of Theseus—the (vastly) theoretical science of human teleportation. Such a process would require scanning one’s body at the subatomic level, destroying it at point A, and using the scanned data to reconstruct it at point B. I would not for the sum of all fortunes subject myself to such madness, for the person at point B would almost certainly not be me. My life would have effectively been cut short, only to be replaced by a clone of myself that had stolen every facet of my being just to stand in my place. But the sobering truth is that if I were to teleport in secret, it would make no difference to anyone’s life but mine, rendering my (non)existence just as ambiguous as that of a ship.

During her teenage years, my mom witnessed the death of her brother Tan and the subsequent birth of her brother Taniel. Despite their immeasurable grief, my grandparents chose to name their newborn child something that would forever remind them of their late child. I like to believe they found solace in the bittersweet notion that Taniel would begin where Tan had left off—that Tan was the person at point A, whose tragic end marked the beginning of a story that continued beyond him but also because of him. His name is seldom spoken these days, yet in a (rather literal) way, it always is.

I am not one to talk about Death. I am privileged to say that everyone I know has evaded It thus far, including my grandfather who suffered a mini-stroke shortly before his 80th birthday; although we celebrated it as if it were his last, he is still here years later.

I talk about It anyway, for Death is horrifying even in theory. This is naively coming from my increasingly recurrent epiphany that the world as I know it is not the entirety of existence. My life has been a deceptive promise of eternity, at times leading me to genuinely forget despite being acutely aware that it is finite. I genuinely cannot wrap my mind around the fact that all this is not *everything*; if anything, it is closer to nothing. Thinking about this makes me lightheaded, so I will stop here.

Many claim not to fear Death in the sense that It is the equivalent of not yet being born. I could not disagree more with this euphemism, since to be dead one must have also been alive. Death is the absence of life just as cold is the absence of heat, haunting me for the same reason I get cold when there is no such thing. A life awaited me before I was born, but after I am dead, nothing will ever await me again. Nothingness is particularly terrifying when it is forever, when every star in the universe will die before I receive another chance to live.

That is a lot of pressure, and perhaps this is the point. Death creates urgency. It meets my gaze as I attempt to appreciate the stillness of a Saturday morning through my bedside window; It whispers my name as I stare at my grandmother’s incoming call knowing that picking up will keep me there for at least half an hour; It grabs my hand as I reach for the door without so much as a goodbye. I feel inclined to pursue my dreams knowing that I can only dream for so long, and would feel no greater shame than to die without having realized any. Death is simultaneously the reason we cannot live forever and the reason we ever do.
