February 2015. My parents had decided that we would spend midwinter break upstate, desperate to be released, even for just a moment, from The Big Apple’s suffocating grasp. It was our first time traveling such a distance by car, and the drive seemed unbearably long to my hyperactive young brain. But onwards we went, through one too many toll booths, several bouts of rain, and unwittingly, the rusting chains of our past.

There was a collective sigh of relief as we finally pulled into the estate, having just undergone a treacherous battle with Google Maps. Waiting there was a baby blue Volkswagen Beetle (the landlord’s, who lived downstairs), perhaps the most respectable vehicle one can own, the sight of which prompted my sister to punch me surprisingly hard in the arm. I was too distracted to care, already skipping to the red oak door, somewhat nauseous but all the more excited for something new.

My smile faded upon stepping inside, the floorboards creaking beneath my trivial weight. I clung to the dusty banister just ahead, confident I would fall through at any moment; but it too betrayed me, shifting away from my tiny hands with another groan. The wallpaper beside the staircase had seemingly been peeling for years, a thick canopy of cobwebs looming above. The furniture was clearly worn, its color faded by generations before us. Though I had always loved antique stores, comforted by the nostalgic scent of old wood and dried lavender, I could never have imagined living in one; it was as if every corner of the house served only to reveal its age.

It was a long evening. The water reeked of sulfur, sending my mom into the dark of night to buy a 50-pack of those offensively small Poland Spring water bottles, presumably because it was doubtful we would stay past the need for more. The lamps in the living room flickered intermittently, eventually bothering us just enough to resort to candlelight. The bedrooms were infested with spiders and insects alien to my urban eyes, ones I would have thought existed only in Australia. The windows did little for insulation, yet the bite of the wind paled in comparison to its roar. Needless to say, my family and I woke up more tired than we were getting into bed.

	But above all else, for some peculiar reason, we felt inspired. So that morning, rather than pack our bags and leave for the first and last time, we stopped by the local convenience store to pick up some normal-sized water bottles, functional lightbulbs, window film, and wood for the fireplace that had remarkably gone unnoticed the day before. We fixed the place up as the sun began to set, perhaps infusing it with the same impact we aspired to make on the world, before setting the logs into place. It wasn’t until I saw the carpets and bookcases of this accursed home illuminated by the warm glow of crackling fire that I realized how truly beautiful it could be.

It was on the same hearth where, five years later, having just followed the tail lights of an UberX in the midst of a snowstorm, our windshield wipers tragically broken, we sat huddled together, laughing at the long string of shared misfortunes we had historically refused to cut.

It turned out to be no more than history; our weekends upstate were gradually consumed by site inspections. On the way to each plot of grass, my parents went into naive detail about the adventures we would have on it, a vivid image of the getaway we surely couldn’t afford already in mind. They all looked the same to me. But soon enough, my parents must have noticed a tract that was particularly green and agreed that it was worthy of replacing the one we had always known.

Then the pandemic hit. Sometime that March, the four of us wearing hazmat suits on our own front porch in Brooklyn, there was a change of plans: we would be moving to our prospective vacation home. And though I am yet to understand how, our new primary residence, situated on that especially green patch of grass, was ready by July.

The three-hour trip lost its familiarity the closer we got. We eventually arrived at a long and winding driveway, the remainder of the property concealed by the woods such that its existence was reserved for the inquisitive. The trees parted as we approached, exposing slivers of the gleaming white house I had only ever seen in photos. It was a moment strongly reminiscent of the first, this time without a Punch Buggy there to welcome us. Before I had time to think about that, I was on the front porch.

I walked in starry-eyed, my footsteps nearly silent on the polished hardwood floor. Sunlight revealed the subtle gold and pink accents of our new furniture, hints of fresh paint lingering in the air. My parents were still at the doorway, beaming at the tangible manifestation of just how far we had come. For a brief moment, it was the brightest my world had ever looked.

Brief because the fireplace was electric. It replaced the crackling wood with prerecorded audio, the golden flames with LED lights; though convenient and even aesthetic, it certainly wasn’t the same. Heat was no longer a concern anyway, now effortlessly regulated by a smart thermostat that seemed to have stolen a painting’s spot on the wall. Each amenity I once knew had been upgraded, new technologies filling in for the barely obsolete. For better or for worse, our perfect house had taken the struggle out of everyday life. Without an underlying fear that one of the windows had a crack, or that a spider would jump out from a cabinet, or that the floor would give out beneath our feet, we were forced to confront our real, poignant, human problems.

Simultaneously, I began to understand that vacations are only magical because they end, our once dreamy retreat now home to our nightmares and everything in between. That is, upstate was no longer an escape from reality - it *was* reality, with nowhere left to escape to. Each day felt longer than the last; the more time spent in that colorful place, the duller it seemed.

While upstate New York had become painfully ordinary, I should think that the same would have happened, given enough time, in the other house. Yet it will always be the one where, against all odds, my family made it work; where, at the lowest point of our young lives, we found laughter; where, amidst creaky floorboards and drafty windows, cyclones and blizzards, we found warmth. And someday, perhaps, when the winds of nostalgia blow me back, it is where I would like to live.
