*Disclaimer: This piece, though inspired by experience (as is all writing), is NOT autobiographical.*

You write better than you speak. You presume it is because you lack practice in the latter. Your thoughts are vivid yet falter as they leave your lips. But your writing has never betrayed you. You have been able to type with closed eyes since you were nine. Nine years later you practice with blank Google Docs and an old friend from elementary school who is also your only friend. You suspect he has only stayed in touch with you out of pity. You are only okay with this because you need him. You rarely see him these days but do not mind. You are just glad to have someone to talk to. Most everyone else is a stranger and you were told never to talk to one. If only that were why you do not.

You seem cold but your heart is warm. You carry pens and a stapler that you have never once used. Such are often forgotten by those with too many people to remember. Not even with an outstretched hand are you one of those people. You smile anyway because to be alone is to expect nothing in return. Sometimes you question your intentions. You do like to help but fear it is out of despair. You want to be kind but perhaps want more to be known. You do not turn your head when someone calls a name resembling yours. You assume it is not for you and have yet to assume wrong.

It is no wonder you have spent everything on floor tickets to K-Pop concerts. The idols speak as if they were your friends. They are not, but you wish they were, if no one else. You know that they use words they do not know and words they do not mean. You are aware that they will not notice you from your seat even with height insoles and picket signs and that nothing would change if they did. You have accepted that they will not for a moment of their existence acknowledge yours. Yet you continue to go, to waste your life away in the hopes of being wrong. You are only ever right when you do not want to be, and yet you continue to go and leave alone.

The old photographs in your room appear to have been taken in another world. The subject certainly has your face but cannot possibly be you. He is seen surrounded by people and wears a smile broader than theirs. The frame’s reflection is left to wonder what went wrong. In the mirror you try to look like them though few will look at you. You once felt this would not suffice and mirrored their clothes, too. The next day you felt like a fraud and that is exactly what you were. It is embarrassing enough to be alone, let alone in a bomber jacket and cargo pants.

You are not sure why it has to be this way. It is true that you are quiet but even the silent have loud friends. They are not quiet with those friends and you are quiet with everyone. This includes your parents and that scares you. They seem to miss the child you were since you are still treated as one. It seems they worry you love them less. This could not be further from the truth as it is impossible not to love all you have left.

You are most afraid that it will always be this way. You could not bear to live like this forever. The strangers have become all too familiar. You have their voices memorized and yet they have never heard yours. They are laughing though you do not know why. You are tired of hearing words that hold no meaning but mostly you are tired. There is something wrong with you and no one to tell you what it is. Perhaps you are one of a lucky few destined to be alone.

The truth is that you are not alone. Some people have no one and you are not one of those people. You have a friend and a family. They love you but do not know you. You do not have the heart to tell them knowing it would break theirs. You keep it to yourself as you do most things. You are not alone but you might as well be. It is your fault you feel this way. You need not know the feeling but you do. You do not mind, or so is said in silence. Your mind is far from silent.

I wish you would stop talking to yourself.
